 Alpha and Omega were the first human beings on the island. Alpha lay in the grass asleep and dreaming. When Omega approached, caught sight of him and grew inquisitive. Omega broke off the stem of a fern and tickled him so that he woke up. This is the start of Edvard Munch's remarkable story about Alpha and Omega. In the portfolio of prints that you see displayed in these two glass cabinets, Munch uses both texts and image to tell the story of the first two humans on Earth. Alpha and Omega live an idyllic life on a remote island right until the arrival of a storm and of a serpent. Omega initiates intimate relationships with wild animals on the island, driving Alpha mad with jealousy. The story ends in a bizarre way. We've modernized Munch's original poem for you to listen to while looking at the images of Alpha and Omega. Alpha loved Omega. In the evenings they would sit nestling close to one another, looking at the golden stripe of moonlight rocking and bobbing up and down in the waters around the island. They walked into the forest, and in the forest were many strange animals and plants. In the forest it was strangely dark, but there were also many beautiful little flowers. Once, when Omega was frightened, she threw her arms violently around Alpha. There were many days of unbroken sunshine on the island. One day Omega was lying in the shade outside the forest when a huge cloud rose out of the sea, spreading across the sky and casting its shadow across the island. Alpha called out to Omega, but Omega heard nothing. Alpha then discovered that Omega was holding the head of a serpent between her hands, and was staring at its twinkling eyes. It was a large serpent which had crawled up between the ferns and along her body. But all of a sudden rain came pouring out of the sky, and Alpha and Omega were frightened. One day, when Alpha discovered the serpent on the ground, he fought with it and killed it, while Omega looked on at a distance. One day she met the bear. Omega trembled when she felt the bear's soft fur against her body. When she placed her arm about its neck, it sunk deep into the fur. Omega comes across a Aina poet with a somewhat tussled coat. Her customary words of endearment falls on deaf ears. She plates a laurel wreath with her soft little hands, and as she turns her sweet face up towards his bitter head, she crowns him. The tiger thrusts its wild and terrible head towards Omega's pretty little face. Omega is not frightened. She puts her little hand in the tiger's maw, caressing his teeth. When the tiger meets the bear on his road, he smells Omega's scent, the scent of bear's fur. When the tiger meets the bear on his road, he smells Omega's scent, the scent of pale apple blossom, which Omega loves most of all blossoms, and which she kissed every morning when the sun rose. They fought with one another and tore one another to pieces. Just as on a chessboard, which had not been invented in those days, the position of the pieces is suddenly changed. Omega clings to Alpha. Inquisitively and uncomprehendingly, the other animals stretch out their necks and watch the game. Omega's eyes would change. On the ordinary days, they were pale blue, but when she looked at her lovers, they became black with flecks of carmine, and occasionally she covered her mouth with a flower. Omega's mood would change. One day Alpha discovered her sitting by the river, kissing a donkey, which was lying in her lap. Then Alpha fetched the ostrich and snuggled up to his neck, but Omega did not pause and look up from her favorite preoccupation of kissing. Omega was tired and sorry that she was unable to possess all the animals on the island. She sat down in the grass and sobbed violently. Then she rose to her feet and ran frenziedly around the island until she met the pig. She knelt down and covered her body with her long black hair, and she and the pig looked at one another. Omega was bored. One night, when the golden column of the moon was rocking in the water, she escaped on the back of a fallow deer across the sea to the pale green land lying across the moon, leaving Alpha alone on the island. One day her children came to him. A new generation had grown up on the island. They gathered round Alpha, whom they called their father. There were small pigs, small serpents, small monkeys, and small beasts of prey and other human mongrels. He despaired. He ran along the seashore. Sky and sea were the color of blood. He heard steps in the air and put his hands to his ears. Earth, sky, and sea trembled, and he felt great fear. One day the fallow deer brought Omega back. Alpha was sitting on the shore, and she came towards him. Alpha could feel the blood throbbing in his ears and the muscles swelling in his body, and he struck Omega until she died. When he bent over her dead body and saw her face, he was terrified at her expression. It was the same expression she had worn on the occasion in the forest when he loved her most. While he was still looking at her, he was attacked from behind by all her children and the animals of the island who tore him to pieces. The new generation peopled the island.